ADR-151 - Rendering order for UI entities (#152)
decentraland/adr: content/ADR-151.md

---
layout: adr
adr: 151
title: Rendering order for UI entities
date: 2022-12-14
status: Review
type: Standards Track
spdx-license: CC0-1.0
authors:
  - menduz
---

## Abstract

> This document describes the requirements to render the UI entities for the Decentraland Protocol. TL;DR; Pre-order using the entity tree defined by the UiTransform ([ADR-124](/adr/ADR-124)).

Reviewer: Chat GPT's abstract hahahaha. It's just for fun.
```
This document describes a UI system in which entities are derived from a synthetic tree and rendered using pre-order sequencing. The rendering process allows for the configuration of stencils to control which parts of a parent entity are visible. The default behavior is to render children in full, even if they extend beyond the borders of the parent. This system is similar to how HTML, ReactNative, and Unity's UiToolkit handle rendering.
```

Author: Will use that abstract for the lulz and for the meta aspect of an AI defining the spec of Decentraland

## Specification

> The UI entities are derived from a synthetic tree of entities defined by the UiTransformComponent ([ADR-124](/adr/ADR-124)). That tree should be rendered from the root to the leafs recursively using a pre-order sequencing.

Reviewer: The specification re-written by Chat GPT (just for fun as well):
```
The UI entities in this system are derived from a synthetic tree of entities defined by the UiTransformComponent ([ADR-124](https://chat.openai.com/adr/ADR-124)). This tree must be rendered using a pre-order sequencing, with children overwriting the pixels of the parent in the rendering process. This behavior is similar to how HTML, ReactNative, and Unity's UiToolkit handle rendering by default.

It is necessary to be able to configure entities to act as stencils, so that only the content within the borders of the parent entity is rendered. By default, children must be rendered in full (without stencils), even if they extend beyond the borders of the parent. This stencil behavior is analogous to the overflow: hidden CSS property.
```

> The UI entities are derived from a synthetic tree of entities defined by the UiTransformComponent ([ADR-124](/adr/ADR-124)). That tree should be rendered from the root to the leafs recursively using a pre-order sequencing.
> 
> That means the children will overwrite the pixels of the parent. This is a common practice, HTML, ReactNative and Unity's UiToolkit behave this way out of the box.

Reviewer: As they're talking about the same subject, it might be better if we join the two paragraphs, what do you think?
```suggestion
The UI entities are derived from a synthetic tree of entities defined by the UiTransformComponent ([ADR-124](/adr/ADR-124)). That tree should be rendered from the root to the leafs recursively using a pre-order sequencing, meaning that the children will overwrite the pixels of the parent. This is a common practice, HTML, ReactNative and Unity's UiToolkit behave this way out of the box.
```

Reviewer: Keywords such as MUST, SHOULD, etc, should be in upercase? If so, there's a should in the sentence.

> That means the children will overwrite the pixels of the parent. This is a common practice, HTML, ReactNative and Unity's UiToolkit behave this way out of the box.

Reviewer: I would say again the word entity here to identify that the pixels belong to the entities:
```suggestion
That means that children entities will overwrite the entities' pixels of their parents. This is a common practice, HTML, ReactNative and Unity's UiToolkit behave this way out of the box.
```

> It MUST be possible to configure entities to act as stencil to only render what it is between the borders of the parent entity. The default behavior MUST be that children will be rendered in ful (without stencil) even though are bigger than the borders of the parent. The stencil is an analogous to the `overflow: hidden` CSS property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It MUST be possible to configure entities to act as stencils to only render what is between the borders of the parent entity. The default behavior MUST be that children will be rendered in full (without a stencil) even if they are bigger than the borders of the parent. The stencil configuration presented here is an analogous to the `overflow: hidden` CSS property.
```

> > TODO: create ADR for UiOverflowMode component

Reviewer: Can a TODO be left in an ADR?

Author: yes
